Bash History Customization
Earlier in this module, we
discussed environment variables
and the history command.
We can use a number of environment
variables to change
how the history command
operates and returns data,
the most common include HISTCONTROL,
HISTIGNORE, and HISTTIMEFORMAT.
The HISTCONTROL variable
defines whether or not to
remove duplicate commands,
commands that begin with spaces
from the history, or both.
By default, both are removed
but you may find it more useful
to only omit duplicate commands.
The HISTIGNORE variable is particularly
useful for filtering out basic commands
that are run frequently, such as
ls, exit, history, bg, etc.
Let’s run a few commands to see if
history ignores our specified commands.
As expected the ls and history commands
do not appear in our command history.
Lastly, HISTTIMEFORMAT
controls date and/or time stamps
in the output of the history command.
In this example, we used %F
(or Year-Month-Day ISO 8601 format)
and %T (24-hour time).
Other formats can be found in the
str-f-time man page.